readme.md, before:

Rat
===

Rat is a boilerplate web app written in PHP/MySQL.

History
-------

When you start building a web app you usually start with the same functionality: signup, login, change password, create 'objects' (whatever they may be), delete objects, add friends etc. Rat gives you that functionality straight out of the box. This frees you up to focus on the differentiating parts of your app: the design, making it useful and getting people using it. Why the name Rat? Because it's small, quick and dirty, and ultimately you should probably exterminate it (and replace it with your own code).

Getting started
---------------

1. Copy all files to your application directory
2. Create a MySQL database and run rat.sql in it
3. Rename config/config-sample.php → config/config.php
4. Update the variables in config/config.php, in particular the database variables
5. Visit admin.php to create your account

Functionality
-------------

**Users**

- Beta signup (collect email addresses before launch)
- Full signup
- Login
- Logout
- Sessions
- Change password

**Objects**

- Create object
- Delete object
- Titles (optional, re-namable)
- Comments (optional, re-namable)
- Likes (optional, re-namable)

**Invites**

- Invite friends by email
- Number of invites can be limited
- Grant new invites to users

**Friends**

- Symmetrical friending (send request, request must be accepted)
- Asymmetrical friending (following)
- Feed of friends' activity

**Admin section**

- Grant access to beta signups
- Grant invites to users

**Default plugins**

- Google Analytics
- Gravatar
- Logging
- Points system (with leaderboard)

**Themes**

- Default: a basic theme

Missing functionality
---------------------

- Forgotten password
- Confirm email address
- Delete user accounts
- Native avatars
- Search users
- Search items
- Edit items
- @ mentions
- Pagination/infinite scroll
- Tidier date formats
- Log viewer for admin section
- Add an additional theme
- Plugin hooks similar to Wordpress
- Connect accounts to Facebook/Twitter
- Signup using Facebook/Twitter
- Option to post new objects to Facebook/Twitter
- Option in Settings to auto-post to Facebook/Twitter
- Enhance friends functionality (friend requests with emails)
- Find friends on Facebook/Twitter
- Incorporate more defaults from [HTML5 Boilerplate](https://github.com/paulirish/html5-boilerplate)
- Read-only JSON API
- OAuth API and developer section

Commit message:

Renamed object to item in readme

readme.md, after:

Rat
===

Rat is a boilerplate web app written in PHP/MySQL.

History
-------

When you start building a web app you usually start with the same functionality: signup, login, change password, create 'items' (whatever they may be), delete items, add friends etc. Rat gives you that functionality straight out of the box. This frees you up to focus on the differentiating parts of your app: the design, making it useful and getting people using it. Why the name Rat? Because it's small, quick and dirty, and ultimately you should probably exterminate it (and replace it with your own code).

Getting started
---------------

1. Copy all files to your application directory
2. Create a MySQL database and run rat.sql in it
3. Rename config/config-sample.php → config/config.php
4. Update the variables in config/config.php, in particular the database variables
5. Visit admin.php to create your account

Functionality
-------------

**Users**

- Beta signup (collect email addresses before launch)
- Full signup
- Login
- Logout
- Sessions
- Change password

**Items**

- Create item
- Delete item
- Titles (optional, re-namable)
- Comments (optional, re-namable)
- Likes (optional, re-namable)

**Invites**

- Invite friends by email
- Number of invites can be limited
- Grant new invites to users

**Friends**

- Symmetrical friending (send request, request must be accepted)
- Asymmetrical friending (following)
- Feed of friends' activity

**Admin section**

- Grant access to beta signups
- Grant invites to users

**Default plugins**

- Google Analytics
- Gravatar
- Logging
- Points system (with leaderboard)

**Themes**

- Default: a basic theme

Missing functionality
---------------------

- Forgotten password
- Confirm email address
- Delete user accounts
- Native avatars
- Search users
- Search items
- Edit items
- @ mentions
- Pagination/infinite scroll
- Tidier date formats
- Log viewer for admin section
- Add an additional theme
- Plugin hooks similar to Wordpress
- Connect accounts to Facebook/Twitter
- Signup using Facebook/Twitter
- Option to post new item to Facebook/Twitter
- Option in Settings to auto-post to Facebook/Twitter
- Enhance friends functionality (friend requests with emails)
- Find friends on Facebook/Twitter
- Incorporate more defaults from [HTML5 Boilerplate](https://github.com/paulirish/html5-boilerplate)
- Read-only JSON API
- OAuth API and developer section
